URL: https://www.va.gov/resources/connected-apps-faqs
Title: Connected Apps FAQs | Veterans Affairs
Content:
Search resources and support Resources and Support All VA.gov Enter a keyword, phrase, or question Connected apps FAQs Get answers to common questions about third-party connected websites and applications. These apps aren’t created by VA, but you can connect them to your profile and they’ll have access to your personal VA data, like your health or service records. Using connected apps Connected apps are third-party (non-VA) applications or websites that can share certain information from your VA.gov profile. They can only access this information after you give us your permission to share it. When you connect to an app, you can use the app's services without having to manually enter your shared information. For example, you can link information from your VA health records to an app that helps you track your health. We offer this feature for your convenience. It’s always your choice whether to connect, or stay connected, to a third-party app. We designed and manage My HealtheVet and VA Mobile apps specifically for the Veterans, service members, and caregivers we serve. Manage your health care with My HealtheVet Find VA Mobile apps Connected apps are designed by organizations outside of VA. These apps can receive only certain personal information, like your VA health or service records, that you tell us to share with them. You can find third-party apps for Veterans in our app directory. Check back often to connect to new apps. Find apps you can use Take these steps to connect the app: When the app (or website) prompts you to connect your VA data, sign in with a verified account through one of our account providers. If you don’t already have a verified account, you can create a free Login.gov or ID.me account now. Learn about creating an account for VA.gov Review the information the app is asking to access. If you’re comfortable sharing that information, allow access. If you have trouble connecting the app, contact the app’s support for help. Find apps you can use Yes. If you no longer want to share your information with an app, you can disconnect it from your VA.gov profile at any time. The app will then no longer have access to new profile information. To disconnect from an app: 1. Sign in to VA.gov 2. Select your name, then Profile . 3. Within your profile, select Connected apps . 4. Find the site or app, and select Disconnect . Note: Some apps may still store information you’ve already shared. If you’d like to ask the app to delete any stored information, contact the app’s support. If you’re concerned that the app may have misused your information, email us at api@va.gov . This depends on the third-party app you want to use. Connected apps are available for all modern device types, like desktop computers, tablets, iPhones, and Android phones. Some of these third-party apps work only with certain devices or operating systems. But more options will become available as more developers design apps for Veterans. Privacy and security with connected apps No. You don't need to connect your VA.gov profile to any third-party apps. We offer this option for your convenience only. In some cases, you can manually enter your information instead. A connected app can only access the information and permissions you see listed when you authorize the connection. This list will vary for each app. It depends on the app’s policy. Once you’ve disconnected an app, they'll no longer receive new information about you from VA. However, you may still need to request that they permanently delete data they’ve already collected. Refer to your app’s privacy policy or contact their customer support if you have specific questions. Take these 3 steps to protect your information: Disconnect from the app. Contact the app’s support and ask them to permanently delete any stored information they may still have from you. Email us at api@va.gov to report the app. Support with connected apps If you’re having trouble connecting to an app, contact the app’s customer support for help. This depends on the problem: If your health records are missing: It can take up to 36 hours for new health records to appear. This gives your health care provider time to discuss results with you before making them available online. If it’s been more than 3 days since your last appointment, or if you need your information sooner, contact your VA health care team. If your information isn’t accurate: Call our MyVA411 main information line at 800-698-2411 ( TTY: 711 ). Or visit a VA health facility near you and ask a staff member for help. Find a VA location near you If you’re getting an “unreadable data” message: This means the connected app has access to your information, but doesn’t use it in its interface. It’s nothing to worry about. If you have questions about this, send feedback directly to the app. Get answers to frequently asked questions about signing in Tags All Veterans Good Bad Want to share more feedback? We'll use it to keep improving VA.gov for all Veterans and their families. Complete our 3-question survey. Related information VA benefits Health care Apply for VA health care, find out how to access services, and manage your health and benefits online. Need more help? MyVA411 main information line: 800-698-2411 Last updated: May 7, 2021 Feedback