URL: https://www.va.gov/resources/va-account-and-profile/
Title: All Articles In: VA Account And Profile | Veterans Affairs
Content:
All articles in: VA account and profile Search resources and support Resources and Support All VA.gov Enter a keyword, phrase, or question Showing 1 - 10 of 38 articles in " VA account and profile " Article type: Question and answer No. Our VA contact center representatives can’t reset your Login.gov or ID.me password for you. This includes representatives at our My HealtheVet help desk. 
You can get help with resetti... Article type: Question and answer Yes. You can delete your Login.gov or ID.me account on the account provider’s website. Deleting your sign-in account won’t delete any information in your VA records. You just won’... Article type: Question and answer Yes. But you’ll need to use alternate methods to verify your identity and add multifactor authentication (MFA).
For Login.gov: You can verify your identity at a participating U.S. post office. ... Article type: Question and answer Yes. Login.gov offers in-person identity verification at a participating United States Postal Service (USPS) location near you.
You can choose this option from the start. 
Or, you may also have t... Article type: About You can change your address in your VA.gov profile for certain VA benefits and services. But some departments keep your address in their own separate records, so you’ll need to contact the... Article type: Multiple FAQs Get answers to common questions about third-party connected websites and applications. These apps aren’t created by VA, but you can connect them to your profile and they’ll have access t... Article type: About A partir de 2025, deberá utilizar una cuenta de Login.gov o ID.me para iniciar sesión en todos los sitios web y aplicaciones de VA, incluidos VA.gov, el sitio web My HealtheVet y la aplicaci... Article type: About Starting in 2025, you’ll need to use a Login.gov or ID.me account to sign in to all VA websites and apps—including VA.gov, the My HealtheVet website, and the VA: Health and Benefits mobi... Article type: Multiple FAQs You can sign in to Defense Department (DOD) websites with a DS Logon account. Keep reading on this page to learn more about DS Logon. Article type: Multiple FAQs Learn about getting your VA benefit payments through direct deposit. If you don’t already have a bank account, the Veterans Benefits Banking Program (VBBP) can connect you with a bank... Feedback