URL: https://www.va.gov/resources/direct-deposit-for-your-va-benefit-payments
Title: Direct Deposit For Your VA Benefit Payments | Veterans Affairs
Content:
Search resources and support Resources and Support All VA.gov Enter a keyword, phrase, or question Direct deposit for your VA benefit payments Learn about getting your VA benefit payments through direct deposit. If you don’t already have a bank account, the Veterans Benefits Banking Program (VBBP) can connect you with a bank that will work with you to set up an account. If you already have one, find out how to change your direct deposit information. What’s direct deposit? When you sign up for direct deposit, we transfer money electronically to your bank account on the day you get paid. You can choose to get your VA pension payments, disability compensation, and education payments through direct deposit. If you switch from getting paper checks to receiving your payment through direct deposit, you’ll get your payments faster because you won’t be waiting for your check to arrive by mail. You’ll also have access to the funds in your account right away. How do I add or change VA benefit direct deposit information online? You can add or change your direct deposit information for VA disability compensation, pension benefits, or education benefits online. You’ll manage this information in your VA.gov profile. Get step-by-step instructions for changing your direct deposit information online How do I set up direct deposit for VA benefits by phone or in person? Here’s how to set up direct deposit by phone: Call us at 800-827-1000 ( TTY: 711 ). We’re here Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. ET. For international direct deposit updates, call us at 918-781-7550 . We’re here Monday through Friday, 9:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. ET. To set up direct deposit in person, go to your nearest VA regional office. Find your nearest VA regional office Note: If you don’t have access to the internet or a phone, you can update your direct deposit information with the Direct Deposit Sign-Up Form (VA Form SF-1199a). Get VA Form SF-1199a to download Can I set up direct deposit for health care travel reimbursement? Yes. You must set up direct deposit to receive your reimbursement payments. Get instructions for how to set up direct deposit for travel pay reimbursement What if I don’t have a bank account, but I want to use direct deposit? The Veterans Benefits Banking Program (VBBP) provides a list of Veteran-friendly banks and credit unions that will work with you to set up an account, or help you qualify for an account, so you can use direct deposit. To get started, call one of the participating banks or credit unions listed on the VBBP website. Be sure to mention the Veterans Benefits Banking Program. Go to the VBBP website for more information Tags All Veterans Payments and debt Good Bad Want to share more feedback? We'll use it to keep improving VA.gov for all Veterans and their families. Complete our 3-question survey. Related information VA benefits Disability File a claim for disability compensation for conditions related to your military service, and manage your benefits over time. Pension Apply for monthly payments for wartime Veterans and survivors with limited or no income who meet certain age and disability requirements. Education and training Apply for and manage your GI Bill and other education benefits to help pay for college and cover expenses while you’re training for a job. Need more help? MyVA411 main information line: 800-698-2411 Last updated: July 24, 2024 Feedback